# How can a Trump conservative lose in a Trump State? 

President Donald Trump won Tennessee in his 2016 presidential race over former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, 61.1 
percent to 34.9 percent points. 

Despite Trump’s win and popularity in a state that has been trending red for more than a decade is presenting a stanch 
problem for the United States Senate and the republican’s grip to hold on to a majority. 

Nashville’s suburban conservative Republican, and self-proclaimed “hardcore, card-carrying Tennessee conservative” 
Congressman Marsha Blackburn is running for retiring GOP Senator Bob Corker’s seat. 

Blackburn was one of the early Republicans to support Trump’s candidacy and has made President Trump the center of her bid for the Senate. 

In her October Senate announcement video Blackburn said, that she stands with Trump on issues like “Trump’s immigration 
ban,” and the southern border wall. 

Blackburn also said that she “stands when the President walks in the room, “ and “I stand when I hear the Star-Spangled 
Banner.”

With the support of President Trump in a Tennessee senate race that was deemed early by the Cook Political Report as likely 
Republican, why would Marsha Blackburn need Trump to travel to Tennessee to campaign for a Trump conservative?

The answer lies in a former Democratic two-term Governor and Mayor. 

Governor Phil Bredesen is 74 years old and the last Democrat to hold state wide office in Tennessee since Vice-president Al 
Gore was a senator for the volunteer state. 

Bredesen was heavily recruited by Democratic leaders and the Corker retirement announcement set up an opportunity for a 
competitive race. 

An April poll conducted by Middle Tennessee State University found that Bredesen had a 10-percentage-point lead over 
Blackburn among state voters in a head-to-head matchup. 

According to the associate director of the poll, Dr. Jason Reineke said “ Bredesen appears significantly more successful at 
attracting voters from outside his own party than Blackburn is at attracting voters from outside hers.”

“For example, 45 percent of self-described independents said they would vote for Bredesen, while only 33 percent of 
independents said they would vote for Blackburn,” Reineke said in the report issued by MTSU. 

Forty-five percent of the 600 registered voters in the state said they would vote for Bredesen if the elections were held 
immediately, 35 percent of those polled said they would vote for Blackburn. 

Eleven percent of the respondents said they were not sure and another 3 percent declined to participate. 

Another poll released in late April, Blackburn is still down to the centrist Democrat.

According to the Mason-Dixon Polling and Strategy firm, found that 46 of their 625 registered respondents supported 
Bredesen, while 43 percent prefer Blackburn. 

Although Blackburn is fighting to match Bredesen she found good news with this poll in the eastern part of Tennessee. Forty-
eight percent of the people responding from East Tennessee said they will vote for Blackburn. 

Bredesen however does maintain a lead in Middle Tennessee, where he served two terms as Mayor of Nashville, and West 
Tennessee where Memphis is located. 

Blackburn is also down among independent voter who could play a crucial role in determining the outcome of the Nov. 6 senate 
contest. 

Forty-nine percent of independent voters said they would vote for Bredesen over Blackburn who is at 35 percent of 
independents saying they’d vote for her. 

The same polling firm found that Bredesen is enjoying a higher favorability than that of the GOP Congressman 43 percent to 
35 percent. 

Another poll released in the middle of May placed independent voters at the center of focus for the top tier candidates. 
Which also presented good news for the Democrat.

Independent voters in a Vanderbilt University poll 69 percent of independent respondents had a positive view of Bredesen. 
Just 44 percent of independents had a positive view of Blackburn.

Experience in running competitive races may be the key to who comes out as the winner. 

Blackburn has not been in a competitive race since she ran for Tennessee’s 7th district, while Bredesen has been in a number 
of competive races in his time as mayor and Governor. 

Before taking the reigns as mayor of Nashville Bredesen lost in a mayor’s race, 5th congressional district race and his 
first attempt to be Governor. 

Bredesen ran against former Congressman Van Hilleary in 2002 after the term-limited Republican Governor Don Sundquist. 

The race came down to just a 50,000 vote margin between Bredesen and Hilleary. 

That year, as has been reflected in the Vanderbilt poll, Bredesen enjoyed great success and turnout in Middle and West 
Tennessee. 

Also that year roughly 1.6 million Tennessean’s cast their vote in the 2002 election for Governor. Comparatively only about 
200,000 more cast their vote for Governor four years later. 

That is interesting to note because of the margin in which Bredesen won re-election. 

In 2006, Bredesen’s opponent was Jim Bryson a member of the Tennessee State Senate. 

In that race Bredesen saw a 69 percentage point win over Bryson’s 30 percent, which resulted in Bredesen winning all 95 
Tennessee counties.

Bredesen gained votes from independents and Republicans who switch sides and voted for him. 

A 2006 poll conducted by the campaign to re-elect Phil Bredesen showed a 65 percent approval in performance, an independent 
WBIR-TV and SurveyUSA independent poll showed a 56 percent approval with both sampling 600 voters. 

Both polls had Bredesen at a 60 percent approval from Republicans. 

Bredesen is banking on the same type of voters to back him for the Fall mid-term election. 

While Blackburn is maintaining a hard-right stance, Bredesen is posturing a centrist message that could appeal to Tennessean’s as determined by a different Vanderbilt University poll performed in December of last year. 

76 percent of those polled said they want their representatives to reach across the aisle in order to get things done, even 
if it means compromising on some of their own values and priorities.

Bredesen is accepting that challenging and maintained that he is not “running against Donald Trump”, and he is “running for 
a Senate seat to represent the people of Tennessee.”

The election is scheduled to take place Nov. 6. 
